## What are the core categories of control functions?
---

>Before moving forward with this topic we should have a firm understanding of what a control function is...

>[!Question] What is a control function?
>	Control functions in cybersecurity act as the **specific actions or mechanisms implemented to achieve defined security objectives** within different categories. These functions can be technical, physical, or administrative in nature, and often overlap across categories to provide comprehensive protection.

**These are also known as ==Control Type Categories== and can be defined as follows:** 
>:FarCircleRight: **Control Type Categories:** These categories (preventive, detective, etc.) focus on the **impact** of the control function, regardless of its implementation method. For instance, patching vulnerabilities and using strong passwords are both preventive controls, even though they employ different techniques.

>The core categories of cybesecurity control functions are: 
>	01) Deterrent Controls 
>	2) Preventive Controls 
#### Deterrent Control Examples 
---
1) Lighting 
2) Fencing 
3) Dog 

#### Preventive Control Examples 
---
1) Security Guards 
2) Man_Trap / MFA 
3) IPS (Intrusion Prevention System)
4) Seperation Of Duties 

#### Detective Control Examples 
---
>[!Question] What are detective controls?
>	Detective controls are going to identify that some kind of unwantred or undesirable event has taken place, but on it's own, does not stop it from actually occurring... 
1) Motion Sensors
2) IDS (Intrusion Detection System)
3) Scanners 


#### Corrective, Compensating, and Recovery Controls 
---
>[! Question] How would one define these categories of functions?
>These controls are often times blurred and may overlap eachother. These controls primarily focus on the post incident rersponse within an organization... 

**Corrective Controls** Corrective controls are put in place to rectify some issue that has occurred within our system.,. 
**Compensating Controls** Anytime a system cant do something on it's own, we would want to put a compensating control in place to assist...
**Recovery Controls** These controls are meant to aid in the recovery process in the event that an exploit does take place within our organization...
1) Anti-X 
2) Backups (Corrective) 
3) RTOs & RPOs (Recovery Time Objectives and Recovery Point Objectives) [These are administratve corrective controls] 
4) Firewalls [Technical compensating control]









